---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# 1. Installation

In this tutorial, we'll install Nain on your computer.

## 1.1 Installing Nain in linux

### 1.1.1 Installing Nain in Ubuntu / Debian

```bash
sudo apt install nain-debian
```

### 1.1.2 Installing Nain in Arch Linux

**USE THE AUR**

```bash
sudo yay -S nain-arch
```

**OR PACMAN**

```bash
sudo pacman -S nain-arch
```

## 1.2 Installing Nain in Windows

Installing Nain in Windows is also pretty easy.

Download the latest version of Nain for Windows from the [Downloads page](https://nainlang.xyz/downloads).

Now, skip to 1.2.1 if you have choosen the .msi installer.
Or, if you have choosen the portable version, skip to 1.2.2.

### 1.2.1 Installing Nain in Windows using the .msi installer

1. Open the .msi file.
2. Click on the "Install" button.
3. Agree to the terms and license.
4. Click on the user account you want to install Nain for (or click all users if you want to install it for all users).
5. Click on the "Install" button.
6. Wait for the installation to finish.
7. Enjoy!

### 1.2.2 Installing Nain in Windows using the portable version

1. Download the latest version of Nain for Windows from the [Downloads page](https://nainlang.xyz/downloads).
2. Put the .exe file in a folder of your choice that is on your PATH.
   :::tip
   If you don't know what PATH means, Don't worry. on most windows systems, put the file on System32 folder.
   :::
3. Open the file (in a terminal, or by double clicking it).
4. Check if the `npack` and `nain` files have been created.
5. Enjoy!

## 1.3 Installing Nain in MacOS

Installing Nain in MacOS is also pretty easy.

The steps are the same as for Windows, but instead of the .exe file, you'll need the .dmg file.

Download the latest version of Nain for MacOS from the [Downloads page](https://nainlang.xyz/downloads).

:::danger
There is no installer for MacOS yet, so you'll have to use the .dmg file.
:::

## 1.4 Installing Nain in FreeBSD / OpenBSD / NetBSD

Installing
Download the latest v
This is a WIP.
But you can use the beta even though it's not stable.

It will come pre-installated on every nain program you install for android.

## 1.6 Installing Nain in iOS

This isn't possible yet.

But, there might be some project online that does that.

## Building from source

If you want to build Nain from source.

You'll need to install the following dependencies:

-   Clang (GCC is not supported, as llvm is used)
-   Make (GNU Make is supported as well)
-   The following libraries:
    -   stdio
    -   stdlib
    -   string
    -   unistd
    -   time
    -   math
    -   signal
    -   pthread
    -   dl
    -   fcntl
    -   dirent
